# 0.1 Fedora Server Edition

"Fedora Server is a powerful and flexible operating system that includes the best and latest in datacenter technologies."
[Fedora Projec](https://www.fedoraproject.org/server/)

## 0.0.0 Misc.

When running fedora on APPLE hardware there might be need to further configure fedora due to licensing.
Fedora only accepta open source repos.

**TODO**

### User and permissions

If on install no user other than root is created;

#### Create user, then set password and 

```
sudo useradd USER 
sudo passwd USER
```

#### Modify `/etc/sudoers` file to elevate USER privileges.

```
USER ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

#### Run sudo without having to input password (not recommended)

```
USEr ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
```

#### Run as user

```
su USER
```

### SSH

#### Generate Key

Run command and follow steps.

```
ssh-keygen
```

#### Copy ssh public key from HOST

```
ssh-copy-id USER@HOST
```

#### Connect through SSH

```
ssh USER@HOST

# or

ssh HOST -l USER
```

#### no password - optional 

To remove the ssh access with password we’ll proceed to remove the comment on the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`,
or in a new file in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config.d`:

```
PasswordAuthentication no
PermitRootLogin prohibit-password
PermitRootLogin no
```

## 0.1.0 Connecting to the internet

Fedora uses `nmcli` to manage the system connections.

Running the aforementioned command yields information about the systems connections.

The documentation from command is very well presented as to how to proceed please run in case of doubts `nmcli -h|--help` or `nmcli COMMAND -h|--help`.

### Radio

This subcommand is used primarily to toggle the device's wireless interfaces. 

```
nmcli radio [ all | wifi | wan ] [ on | off ]
```

### Device
 
#### Connect through ETH:

```
nmcli device connect DEVICE
```

#### list available Wifi connections:

```
nmcli device wifi list
```

#### Connect through WIFI:

```
nmcli device wifi connect SSID password SSID_PASSWORD
```

#### Set static Ip address ()

To set an static Ip address run the following command;

```
nmcli connection modify \
    SSID ipv4.method manual \
    ipv4.addresses IP/MASK \
    ipv4.dns IP \
    ipv4.gateway IP

# optional

nmcli connection modify SSID ipv4.dns-search local
``` 

## 0.1.1 DNS

Previously we added the keyword `local` inside the ipv4 network configuration;

To modify DNS on a broader spectrum configure file on, `/etc/systemd/resolved.conf`.

Example:

```
[Resolve]
DNS=1.1.1.1
Domains=local
```

To apply changes reboot or run:

```
systemctl reload systemd-resolved.service
```

## 0.1.2 Volumes

Logical Volumes

To display current volume information:

### Physical Volume

```
pvdisplay
```

### Virtual Group

```
vgdisplay
```

### Logical Volume

```
lvdisplay
```
